-: Welcome back.
As part of step 0403, we are going to verify
that our load balancer controller is installed
and also it's equal and webhook services also got created.
So let's start with
whether the controller is installed or not.
So we'll set kubectl-n kube system
and get the deployments in our EKS cluster, right?
So in kube system namespace,
so we'll say kubectl-n kube system and get,
and we can say deploy.
So what all deployments available in kube system namespace
it is going to list for us.
So you can see AWS load balancer controller
which was created two minutes before, right?
So now if you want to also see in detail, right?
If you want to describe that deployment and review it
so we can describe it, right?
So this is the name of the deployment, right?
So, copy and paste
and instead of get command
we'll use the describe command here, right?
So I'll say describe.
And you should see that the entire information about this
is going to be provided in detail.
See name of the deployment
is AWS load balancer controller in namespace kube system.
It was created and these are some of the labels of it.
And the version it has installed
as on to the latest is V2.3.1.
So it has installed the 2.3.1
and it has done using.
So labels are the very important thing.
So how it has installed, also you will know.
So it is manager by Helm here, right?
So instance name is AWS load balancer controller
and name also you can AWS load balancer controller
and it is manager by Helm.
And version, also you are going to see 2.3.1
and Helm chart version you can see 1.3.3.
This is the Helm chart version
and this is the EKS load balancer controller version
is V2.3.1.
So both are different.
And now annotations,
you can see deployment and meta health,
some additional things
whatever they have defined here, right?
And another important thing you can see here
is in the selector labels
you can see app Kubernetes io instance
and also app Kubernetes io name.
And both have the AWS load balancer controller.
So, and in addition to that replicas,
it has created two desired replicas
and strategy type deployment.
Strategy type it is using is rolling updates
and rolling update strategy
also it is saying 25% max unavailable and 25% max search.
So, and this is the port template.
And if you see here,
this is the very important point
where you can see service account
it is going to be associated
with this AWS load balancer controller.
And containers it has downloaded from the image repository
whatever you have set, right?
And ports it is using is 9443 and then 8080, right?
And the cluster name is EKS demo one,
whatever the arguments you have provided.
Ingress class ALB AWS region code is this one,
AWS VPC IDs, whatever you have provided.
It also internally have the liveness probe
whatever they have defined inside the package
and it has the volumes
and it has some certificate mounted to it
whose name is AWS load balancer TLS.
So this one just remember it.
Why?
Because if you see here AWS load balancer TLS.
So that is what is mounted here.
So this is the secret which is mounted as volumes here.
Why?
Because this respective load balancer controller
listens on port 9443.
So the communication to this load balancer controller
is going to be on SSL and it needs a TLS certificate
associated with that.
And that TLS certificate is associated here
as volumes inside that using a secret,
which means when you go and then verify that secret,
we'll find that one also.
And you can see the events normal scaling replicas
that everything looks good.
There is no errors or anything from events perspective.
So this is about the deployment, right?
And now we'll also verify the service here,
which is webhook service.
So kubectl- and kube system.
And then instead of deployment,
so I'll say clear and instead of deploy, right?
So we are going to say SVC.
So we'll get the services in the kube system namespace
and you'll see kube DNS is one service
and AWS load balancer webhook service
is one more service and which is listening
on port 443, right?
And here you have seen the port 9443.
So, now we'll see the important things here.
So this is 9443
and the selector labels inside this right?
The selector labels inside this
is also you have seen here, right?
The selector labels is instance AWS load balancer controller
and name and AWS load balancer controller.
So these are the selector match labels
should be available inside the service labels, right?
Service selector.
So that traffic coming to this 443 port
need to be sent to that 9443 port.
Those also we need to verify
for our additional understanding only.
So whatever we are discussing
is for our additional understanding
and dissecting each of the objects
and then seeing the internals of it.
So let's come back here and see.
Verify labels in service
and select the labels in deployment, right?
So this is the webhook service
which you are going to output using YAML, right?
So what is this?
So, get SVC and load balancer webhook service with YAML.
And inside this you go to selector,
and you see these two are the values
inside the service selector, right?
App Kubernetes io instance and app Kubernetes io name.
And now verify the selector labels
in our AWS load balancer controller deployment, right?
And you'll find here also,
come back here and you'll find the selector match labels
and you can see the same thing.
Whatever you are seeing in selector match labels
of the deployment, same you are seeing in the service here.
So that very clearly tells us
that whatever the traffic coming to the webhook service
on 443 it is sending to our deployment,
AWS load balancer controller deployment.
But, let's also verify this one more time
on which ports it is sending, right?
So that's also very important, see?
So the port it is using is 443
which is the front end port for this
respect to cluster IP service is 443.
And the target port it is sending is webhook server port.
So this webhook server port is nothing but 9443 port.
So let's come back here, right,
and verify that, right?
So these are the container ports.
And in container ports,
you can see container port 9443
whose name is webhook server, right?
And the other 8080 port
for this load balancer controller is in metric server port.
So this is very important.
So, for the webhook services listening
the cluster IP service is listening on 443
and whatever the traffic comes to that webhook service,
it is going to send to AWS load balancer
controller ports,
for the deployment whatever the ports created
for those ports on port 9443, right?
Means like this container AWS load balancer controller
container is listening on 9443.
So, good.
So this clears out one important thing
which is webhook service
and also the AWS load balancer controller,
how the communication is happening in between them also.
We got a complete picture.
So in our next lecture,
we are going to verify additional logs and additional stuff.
So, I'll see you in the next lecture.
Until then, bye bye.
Thank you.